## Abstract
<!-- 250 words maximum for abstract. Abstract must be structured into separate sections: 1). Background; 2). Findings; 3). Conclusions. -->

**Background:** In 2019, the Open Pediatric Brain Tumor Atlas (OpenPBTA) was created as a global, collaborative open-science initiative to genomically characterize 1,074 pediatric brain tumors and 22 patient-derived cell lines. 
Here, we extend the OpenPBTA to create the Open Pediatric Cancer (OpenPedCan) Project, a harmonized open-source multi-omic dataset from 6,112 pediatric cancer patients with 7,096 tumor events across more than 100 histologies. 
Combined with RNA-Seq from the Genotype-Tissue Expression (GTEx) and The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA), OpenPedCan contains nearly 48,000 total biospecimens (24,002 tumor and 23,893 normal specimens).

<!-- A very brief preview of the data type(s) produced, the methods used, and information relevant to data validation -->
**Findings:** We utilized Gabriella Miller Kids First (GMKF) workflows to harmonize WGS, WXS, RNA-seq, and Targeted Sequencing datasets to include somatic SNVs, InDels, CNVs, SVs, RNA expression, fusions, and splice variants. 
We integrated summarized CPTAC proteomics and phospho-proteomics data, miRNA-Seq data, and have developed a methylation array harmonization workflow to include m-values, beta-vales, and copy number calls. 
OpenPedCan contains reproducible, dockerized workflows in GitHub, CAVATICA, and Amazon Web Services (AWS) to deliver harmonized and processed data from over 60 scalable modules which can be leveraged both locally and on AWS. 
The processed data are released in a versioned manner and accessible through CAVATICA or AWS S3 download (from GitHub), and queryable through PedcBioPortal and the NCI's pediatric Molecular Targets Platform. 

<!-- A short summary of the potential uses of these data and implications for the field. -->
**Conclusions:** OpenPedCan data and its reproducible analysis module framework are openly available and can be utilized and/or adapted by researchers to accelerate discovery, validation, and clinical translation.





