## OPENPEDCAN METHODS

### RESOURCE AVAILABILITY

#### Lead contact

Requests for access to OpenPedCan raw data and/or specimens may be directed to, and will be fulfilled by Jo Lynne Rokita (rokita@chop.edu).

#### Materials availability

This study did not create new, unique reagents.

#### Data and code availability

Merged summary files for OpenPedCan v12 are openly accessible in [CAVATICA](https://cavatica.sbgenomics.com/u/cavatica/opentarget) or via download script in the [https://github.com/PediatricOpenTargets/OpenPedCan-analysis](https://github.com/PediatricOpenTargets/OpenPedCan-analysis) repository.
Cancer group summary data are visible within the NCI's pediatric [Molecular Targets Platform](https://moleculartargets.ccdi.cancer.gov/) and cohort, cancer group, and individual data are visible within [PedcBioPortal](https://pedcbioportal.kidsfirstdrc.org/study/summary?id=openpedcan_v12)

OpenPedCan analysis modules were developed within OpenPBTA [@doi:10.1016/j.xgen.2023.100340], modified based on OpenPBTA, or newly created and can be found within the following publicly available repositories.
OpenPBTA module analyses can be found at [https://github.com/AlexsLemonade/OpenPBTA-analysis](https://github.com/AlexsLemonade/OpenPBTA-analysis).
OpenPedCan module analyses can be found at [https://github.com/PediatricOpenTargets/OpenPedCan-analysis](https://github.com/PediatricOpenTargets/OpenPedCan-analysis).
OpenPedCan api code can be found at [https://github.com/PediatricOpenTargets/OpenPedCan-api](https://github.com/PediatricOpenTargets/OpenPedCan-api).

Software versions are documented in **Table XX**.

#### Data releases


### EXPERIMENTAL MODEL AND STUDY PARTICIPANT DETAILS
<!-- TODO: add description of all studies here -->

We utilize the Illumina TruSeq Strand Specific Protocol which pulls out poly-adenylated transcripts and builds those into libraries. Please see our methods below:

cDNA Library Construction

Total RNA was quantified using the Quant-iT™ RiboGreen® RNA Assay Kit and normalized to 5ng/ul. Following plating, 2 uL of ERCC controls (using a 1:1000 dilution) were spiked into each sample. An aliquot of 325 ng for each sample was transferred into library preparation which uses automated variant of the Illumina TruSeq™ Stranded mRNA Sample Preparation Kit. This method preserves strand orientation of the RNA transcript. It uses oligo dT beads to select mRNA from the total RNA sample. It is followed by heat fragmentation and cDNA synthesis from the RNA template. The resultant 400bp cDNA then goes through dual-indexed library preparation: ‘A’ base addition, adapter ligation using P7 adapters, and PCR enrichment using P5 adapters. After enrichment the libraries were quantified using Quant-iT PicoGreen (1:200 dilution). After normalizing samples to 5 ng/uL, the set was pooled and quantified using the KAPA Library Quantification Kit for Illumina Sequencing Platforms. The entire process is in 96-well format and all pipetting is done by either Agilent Bravo or Hamilton Starlet.

Illumina Sequencing

Pooled libraries were normalized to 2nM and denatured using 0.1 N NaOH prior to sequencing. Flowcell cluster amplification and sequencing were performed according to the manufacturer’s protocols using the NovaSeq 6000. Each run was a 151bp paired-end with an eight-base index barcode read. Data was analyzed using the Broad Picard Pipeline which includes de-multiplexing and data aggregation.

### METHOD DETAILS

#### Nucleic acids extraction and library preparation
<!-- TODO: add by study here, or refer to publication -->


#### Data generation
<!-- TODO: add by study here, or refer to publication -->


#### DNA WGS Alignment
Please refer to the OpenPBTA manuscript for details [@doi:10.1016/j.xgen.2023.100340].

#### Quality Control of Sequencing Data
Please refer to the OpenPBTA manuscript for details [@doi:10.1016/j.xgen.2023.100340].


##### SNP calling for B-allele Frequency (BAF) generation
Please refer to the OpenPBTA manuscript for details [@doi:10.1016/j.xgen.2023.100340].


#### Somatic Mutation Calling

##### SNV and indel calling
Please refer to the OpenPBTA manuscript for details [@doi:10.1016/j.xgen.2023.100340].


##### VCF annotation and MAF creation
<!-- TODO: update VEP version -->


##### Gather SNV and INDEL Hotspots
<!-- TODO: needs update -->


##### Consensus SNV Calling
<!-- TODO: needs update -->


#### Somatic Copy Number Variant Calling (WGS samples only)
<!-- TODO: needs update -->

##### Consensus CNV Calling
<!-- TODO: needs update -->


#### Somatic Structural Variant Calling (WGS samples only)
Please refer to the OpenPBTA manuscript for details [@doi:10.1016/j.xgen.2023.100340].


#### Methylation Analysis
<!-- include QC, b-value/m-value calculations, packages, dkfz classification -->


#### Gene Expression

##### Abundance Estimation
<!-- TODO: needs update -->


##### Gene Expression Matrices with Unique HUGO Symbols
<!-- TODO: needs update, include liftover for TCGA/GTEX -->


##### Gene fusion detection
<!-- TODO: needs update -->


### QUANTIFICATION AND STATISTICAL ANALYSIS

##### Focal Copy Number Calling (`focal-cn-file-preparation` analysis module)



##### Gene Set Variation Analysis (`gene-set-enrichment-analysis` analysis module)
Please refer to the OpenPBTA manuscript for details [@doi:10.1016/j.xgen.2023.100340].



##### Fusion prioritization (`fusion_filtering` analysis module)




#### Mutational Signatures (`mutational-signatures` analysis module)



### Tumor Mutation Burden (`snv-callers` analysis module)



#### Clinical Data Harmonization

##### WHO Classification of Disease Types


##### Molecular Subtyping
Here, we build upon the molecular subtyping performed in OpenPBTA [@doi:10.1016/j.xgen.2023.100340].

High-grade gliomas..
<!-- TODO: needs update - DHG, IHG -->

Atypical teratoid rhabdoid tumors..


Neuroblastoma tumors...


###### Integration of brain tumor methylation classifications 


#### TP53 Alteration Annotation (`tp53_nf1_score` analysis module)
Please refer to the OpenPBTA manuscript for details [@doi:10.1016/j.xgen.2023.100340].


#### Prediction of participants' genetic sex
Please refer to the OpenPBTA manuscript for details [@doi:10.1016/j.xgen.2023.100340].


#### Selection of independent samples (`independent-samples` analysis module)



